>> Scott Moss: How's it going everybody?
Welcome to Headless CMS with Next.js, I'm
super excited about teaching this course.
If you haven't taken a course with me,
let me give you a little
background about myself.
My name is Scott Moss,
I'm gonna be your instructor.
I've been an engineer for
over 10 years now,
I've worked at companies like Netflix,
early startups, and
even created some startups of my
own that I'll talk about soon.
Currently, I'm making another startup
in AI right now after being inspired,
after taking so many AI pitches as a VC.
And today I'm gonna teach you about
how to use a headless CMS in Next.js.
So, little small nugget, but one of
the first startups that I ever created
was headless CMS back in 2015, 2016.
So I'm pretty deep in the space
from many different angles,
whether it's creating one, trying to
sell one, creating integrations for one,
using one in my projects, and
now teaching about headless CMS.
So I have a lot of different perspectives
that I would love to share with you.
I think one of the best ways to
use a headless CMS is to just use
it on a site that you already have,
because realistically,
that's what's gonna happen in the wild.
You're already gonna have
a website that's done and
you're gonna need to integrate
some part of that to be dynamic.
So that's what we're
gonna do in this course.
So here you can see it's this nice fancy
website that I spent about ten minutes
making, cuz that's about how long it
took to sign up at my credit card and
buy this and download.
And what we're gonna do is we're gonna
take some of these static elements here
and convert them to be dynamic using
a headless CMS, which is the whole point.
I think for the most part that,
reflects what's gonna happen in real life.
It's gonna be very hard for
you to build a website from scratch while
also trying to make content dynamic.
It's like writing a database schema for
an app you know nothing about.
So I think realistically,
that's typically how it's gonna go.
So for today, I have a repo for
you all, that way we can start with
the same app that I just walked through.
And basically, the repo is pretty bare
bones when it comes to dynamic content,
but it's a fully built out website.
And you can take a look around but
it's just a standard Next.js
website that use the app directory.
There's some things in there that you
don't need to touch for the most part,
we're just gonna be replacing a lot of
those different static pieces of content.
As far as course notes, we don't really
have any course notes because a lot
of this is gonna be like thought
process and discussion and
philosophy around how you
design content models.
How do you get someone on your team
who's not technical to use it,
and what are the trade offs?
So we're just gonna talk about it and walk
through it ourselves, and that way you can
kinda understand from your own perspective
what some of those constraints might be.
Go ahead and pull that down.
And if you're on the main branch,
that's the complete version,
don't run that branch.
Check out to the step/0 branch,
that's what we'll be starting.
That's the fresh website that you just
saw that I purchased and downloaded.
So, it's not using the CMS,
it's using some CLI thing, but
all the content is pretty
much static in that website.
So that's the version you wanna be on.
The reason I went with this approach
is because from my experience,
for the most part, people use headless
CMS to a website they already have.
There are occasions where
people start a new website and
they're thinking about headless CMS, but
what I realized in that scenario is that
they don't actually know how
to use the headless CMS.
They don't know what to do with it yet,
because they don't have a structure for
their website.
At minimum, you most likely need
a design from your designers, so
you know what the content places and
layouts and blocks are going to be, and
maybe you can do
a headless CMS from there.
But if you don't even have that,
it's gonna be quite difficult.
So, I didn't think building something
from scratch and then adding a CMS along
the way was the actual practical way that
most people do it, it's usually this.
They have some website in production and
now they wanna manage some or
all of the content in production.
So then they go through and
progressively add certain things
that they wanna change out.
Maybe they start with an experiment for
AB testing on a hero, and then they move
on to, we wanna add a testimonial section
where people can add testimonials and
it progressively.
It goes that way.
So that's how we're gonna do it,
because for
the most part that's what
I've seen a lot of folks do.
Size requirements, because it's Next.js,
you just need Node.js.
So make sure you have
node.js V20 at the minimal,
I haven't tested it on
anything other than V20.
I've tested with bun,
it works with bun, but
I highly recommend just using node because
I have a package json in there, and if you
want the same versions of the dependencies
that I have, then you want to use npm.
So make sure you use npm, it does
run with bun, just install with npm.
You can run with bun if you want.
As far as knowledge prerequisites,
what you would need to know to take this
course, you don't really need
to know that much about Next.js.
So if you've taken an intro course and
have never done anything else,
you're probably fine, we're not gonna
be diving into crazy Next.js stuff.
That was an intermediate
course that I just taught.
If you wanna know more about that,
go take that course.
We actually got into the weeds of a lot
of different things, Llke caching and
stuff like that.
And we'll talk a little bit
about caching and stuff, but
not in too much detail here.
The focus is definitely CMS, so
a little bit of experience with Next.js,
definitely some experience with Node.js.
If you never use Node or anything
like that, that could be a blocker,
highly recommend taking a Node.js
course that we have here as well,
if you wanna do that
before you get started.
Disclaimer, we will be using
some GraphQL here, but
you do not need to know GraphQL to use it,
it's abstracted away so
simple that if you know what JSON is,
you know what we're doing.
So, you do not need to know GraphQL
to actually use this, but yeah,
we will be using some GraphQL,
you just don't need to know it.
So I'm not even gonna say
that's a prerequisite.